Add `osu!taiko World Cup 2025: Round of 16 Recap` news post (#13081)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2025/2025-04-03-osutaiko-world-cup-round-of-16-recap.md

## Match highlights

### ::{ flag=CN }:: China vs. ::{ flag=GB }:: United Kingdom

**[View the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/117642054)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2419339071&time=0h5m12s&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

China has long been a strong and exciting team to follow in the World Cups, and last year the United Kingdom made history by securing a 2nd-place finish! This year, however, the United Kingdom, having lost many of its core players, dropped to the #10 seed from last year's #2. Even so, this match between China (#7) and the United Kingdom (#10) was far closer than many expected.

With China winning the roll, they narrowly beat the United Kingdom on their first pick, [nagiha - VALDeS](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343727#taiko/5038204) (NM2). However, the United Kingdom fired back, and proved they still had some firepower with a win on their own pick, [96-glass - Scooter Braza](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/1732086#taiko/4489836) (NM3).

> It became an intense battle where both teams kept trading points. China barely claimed victory on their second pick, [Eliminate - Elevator (Sped Up Ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2010161#taiko/4182581) (NM4), with a 2,052 score difference, and all players full-comboing. Next up, the United Kingdom picked [seatrus - Diossido di Carbonio](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2068608#taiko/4328190) (HR1), and with a similar score difference, all players got a full-combo yet again. Not to mention [overdahedge2015](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9864847) with the perfect score, securing their point! Quickly, China picked [haunt - song about love](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2203014#taiko/4701577) (HD2). In what became something of a pattern, all players full-comboed once again, with [My Angel Seia](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17797595) getting a perfect score. Despite the United Kingdom's strong showing, China walked away with a win on their pick.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It became an intense battle where both teams kept trading points. China barely claimed victory on their second pick, [Eliminate - Elevator (Sped Up Ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2010161#taiko/4182581) (NM4), with a 2,052 score difference, and all players full-comboing. Next up, the United Kingdom picked [seatrus - Diossido di Carbonio](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2068608#taiko/4328190) (HR1), and with a similar score difference, all players got a full-combo yet again. Not to mention ::{ flag=UK }:: [overdahedge2015](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9864847) with the perfect score, securing their point! Quickly, China picked [haunt - song about love](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2203014#taiko/4701577) (HD2). In what became something of a pattern, all players full-combo'd once again, with ::{ flag=UK }:: [My Angel Seia](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/17797595) getting a perfect score. Despite the United Kingdom's strong showing, China walked away with a win on their pick.
```

> Both teams fiercely trading points, no one could predict this match from then on. The United Kingdom picked next, and a heated battle unfolded. With China scoring one fewer miss overall than the United Kingdom, they scored the first break point of the match on [minimum electric design - miscalc](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets?q=artist%3D%22%22minimum%20electric%20design%22%22) (DT2). With China at match point, the team picked [FRASER EDWARDS - The Heist](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343737#taiko/5038222) (NM5). Potentially the last map of the match, the United Kingdom wasn't done yet. Against all odds, they stole China's pick with a razor-thin 127-point difference!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both teams fiercely trading points, no one could predict this match from then on. The United Kingdom picked next, and a heated battle unfolded. With China scoring one fewer miss overall than the United Kingdom, they scored the first break point of the match on [minimum electric design - miscalc](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2322699#taiko/4977029) (DT2). With China at match point, the team picked [FRASER EDWARDS - The Heist](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343737#taiko/5038222) (NM5). Potentially the last map of the match, the United Kingdom wasn't done yet. Against all odds, they stole China's pick with a razor-thin 127-point difference!
```

> Now the United Kingdom's pick, they chose this week's osu! original, [Slax - Body to the Drum](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343891#taiko/5038601) (NM1). Even with [overdahedge2015](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9864847) getting their second perfect score in the match, it was sadly not enough, and China secured the final point, winning the match 5-3, and sending the United Kingdom down to the loser's bracket.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the United Kingdom's pick, they chose this week's osu! original, [Slax - Body to the Drum](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343891#taiko/5038601) (NM1). Even with ::{ flag=UK }:: [overdahedge2015](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/9864847) getting their second perfect score in the match, it was sadly not enough, and China secured the final point, winning the match 5–3, and sending the United Kingdom down to the loser's bracket.
```

### ::{ flag=CL }:: Chile vs. ::{ flag=RU }:: Russian Federation

**[View the match information here!](https://osu.ppy.sh/community/matches/117633311)**

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://player.twitch.tv/?video=2418738466&parent=osu.ppy.sh&autoplay=false" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="true" scrolling="no"></iframe>
</div>

> The idea of a "core player" is something that many will be familiar with, both players and viewers alike. Household names like [goheegy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8057655/taiko) from the United Kingdom or [frukoyurdakul](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7612550) from Türkiye are spearheads that people might base their match predictions on. For Chile, you might consider their team captain, [Ulqui](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1263669), to be that core player. But what happens when they're not around? This weekend we saw the meeting of the captainless Chile (#6) and the Russian Federation (#11). A match where 90.9% of pick'em voters had their hopes on Chile, perhaps unaware of their missing player.

Reviewer 2: ::{ flag=UK }:: in front of goheegy's name

Reviewer 2: also ::{ flag=TR }:: for frukoyurdakul

Reviewer 2: Ulqui is now named ulko and he also needs ::{ flag=CL }:: in front of his name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The idea of a "core player" is something that many will be familiar with, both players and viewers alike. Household names like ::{ flag=UK }:: [goheegy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/8057655/taiko) or ::{ flag=TR }:: [frukoyurdakul](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/7612550) are spearheads that people might base their match predictions on. For Chile, you might consider their team captain, ::{ flag=CL }:: [Ulqui](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/1263669), to be that core player. But what happens when they're not around? This weekend we saw the meeting of the captainless Chile (#6) and the Russian Federation (#11). A match where 90.9% of pick'em voters had their hopes on Chile, perhaps unaware of their missing player.
```

The Chilean team immediately showed everyone that their core remains strong regardless of their roster with three fantastic full combos on their first pick, [haunt - song about love](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2203014#taiko/4701577) (HD2). However, the Russian team was quick to prove that they too are a force to be reckoned with, claiming their own point on [nagiha - VALDeS](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343727#taiko/5038204) (NM2).

> The Chileans showed off their mod prowess with a full team's worth of HDHR scores on [reysa - sometimes it's just a little sad to say goodbye](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343768#taiko/5038285) (FM2). Although the Russian team full-comboed the map, all three only used HR, allowing Chile to secure their second point.

Reviewer: maybe this is better?
```suggestion
The Chileans showed off their mod prowess with a full team's worth of HDHR scores on [reysa - sometimes it's just a little sad to say goodbye](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2343768#taiko/5038285) (FM2). Although the Russian team full-combo'd the map, all three only used HR, allowing Chile to secure their second point.
```

The teams kept trading points — Russia claimed [minimum electric design - miscalc](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2322699#taiko/4977029) (DT2), Chile repeated their three-way HDHR victory on [Zekk - Trinity Force](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2048882#taiko/4277827) (FM1) and Russia fired back with three identical scores on [seatrus - Diossido di Carbonio](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2068608#taiko/4328190) (HR1). It's definitely worth checking out.

> Chile took the game to match point with an impressive 123,577-point win on [Eliminate - Elevator (Sped Up Ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2010161#taiko/4182581) (NM4)... but there's a reason this match made it to the recap — one of them being Russia's incredible last-point clutch of a mere 3,002 points on [EVO - Kholod](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2155566#taiko/4713800) (HR2) bringing them to the first tiebreaker of the tournament, where all six performed impeccably — but one player went the extra mile, securing Chile's victory:

Reviewer: not sure if this is right?
```suggestion
Chile took the game to match point with an impressive 123,577 point win on [Eliminate - Elevator (Sped Up Ver.)](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2010161#taiko/4182581) (NM4)... but there's a reason this match made it to the recap — one of them being Russia's incredible last-point clutch of a mere 3,002 points on [EVO - Kholod](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2155566#taiko/4713800) (HR2) bringing them to the first tiebreaker of the tournament, where all six performed impeccably — but one player went the extra mile, securing Chile's victory:
```

Author: only if the unit is abbreviated

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2025-04-03-cl-ru-tiebreaker.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

> 

Reviewer 2: add score highlights section

`## Score highlights

One score stood out the most this weekend, which is now being highlighted to be remembered right here:

- The previously mentioned "extra mile" that the Chilean team needed, was ::{ flag=CL }:: [chibamasu](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/16067522/taiko)'s score on [yax03 - 17 yo silly EDM artist from Japan vs. the World](https://osu.ppy.sh/beatmapsets/2249855#taiko/4784566) (TB). Taking the challenge to a next level they showed everyone, why Chile deserves the win. Masterclass gameplay and only 4x100 with the HD mod later, chibamasu ended up with a full-combo and a stunning score of 1,061,305.`
